Feature/bounds check label (#267)
MicroEJ/docs: Tutorials/tutorialBoundsCheck.rst

String bounds check on a Widget
===============================
The issue
-------------

When creating an application, it may support multiple languages, some of those languages have words and phrases that may be bigger than first planned when creating an application

Extending a Widget
-------------------
- Firstly, to add a check for label size, the Widget needs to be extendend,on this example, the Label class will be used for this purpose

.. code-block:: java

    public class MyLabel extends Label {

        public MyLabel(String txt) {
            super(txt);
        }

        @Override
        protected void onLaidOut() {

        }
    }

Overriding onLaidOut
--------------------
 
After a widget is laidOut, the onLaidOut method is called, so, overriding this method is possible to check whether or not the text fits 

> Inside of the method ,get the Font from the Style that the widget is using, and then, get the Font 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of the method, get the Font from the Style that the widget is using, and then, get the Font 
```

.. code-block:: java

    @Override
    protected void onLaidOut() {
        final Font font = getStyle().getFont();
        final String text = getText();
        final int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);

>         final int labelWidth = this.getContentBounds().getWidth();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        final int contentWidth = getContentBounds().getWidth();
```

>         if (stringWidth > labelWidth) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        if (stringWidth > contentWidth) {
```

>             System.err.println("The text size is greater than the Widget content Width!");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            System.err.println("The text size is greater than the widget content width!");
```

        }
    }

Testing with canvas
--------------------

> - Using canvas, it's possible to set constraints to each added widget

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The check can be easily validated by putting the widget in a canvas and setting its bounds manually (a little shorter than the text size).
```

  
.. code-block:: java

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        MicroUI.start();
        Desktop desktop = new Desktop();
        Canvas canvas = new Canvas();

>         canvas.addChild(new MyLabel("Teste"), 15, 0, 15, 10);

Reviewer: I think all the strings should be in english

        desktop.setWidget(canvas);
        desktop.requestShow();
    }

.. image:: images/tuto_microej_bounds_check.png

> - and the console should show this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The console should show this:
```

The console should show this:

.. code-block:: console

>     The text size is greater than the Widget content Width!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The text size is greater than the widget content width!
```

----------------------------

> To make the debugging process easier, it's possible to show on which section of the text is truncated 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make the correction process easier, it's possible to indicate where the text is truncated.
```

.. code-block:: java

    @Override
    protected void onLaidOut() {
        final Font font = getStyle().getFont();
        final String text = getText();
        final int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);
        final int labelWidth = this.getContentBounds().getWidth();
        if (stringWidth > labelWidth) {
            for (int i = text.length() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                if (font.substringWidth(text, 0, i) <= labelWidth) {

>                     System.out.println(text + "\" trucantes after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    System.out.println(text + "\" truncates after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$
```

                    break;
                }

            }
        }
    }

> This block of code can be also extracted to a helper class,to be used also in other Widgets, not only the one extending Label

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This block of code can be also extracted to a helper class in order to be used in several Widgets.
```

.. code-block:: java

    public class LabelBoundsCheck {

>     static void fits(final Font font, final String text, final int contentWidth) {

Reviewer 2: For me, a method named "fits" return a boolean (like "equals"). Maybe "check" instead?

Author: I changed this method to return false when it fails, and true when it doesn't

Reviewer 2: What is the usage of this return value? Since the error is already handled (with a print) inside the method, I doubt that the user will do something with the return value.

>         if (Constants.getBoolean("myapp.debugtextsize")) {

Reviewer 2: You should also present the usage of the constants to enable/disable the check (and explain that the production is not impacted by these development checks).

Author: Yes, I thought using this on a differente tutorial since I didn't want to mix, I will just remove this if statement to avoid confusion on those who are going to read

Reviewer 2: I think it is mandatory for the user to have otherwise he will have this code embedded in the production firmware (or he will have to remove it manually).

Reviewer 3: done

            int stringWidth = font.stringWidth(text);
            if (stringWidth > contentWidth) {
                for (int i = text.length() - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
                    if (font.substringWidth(text, 0, i) <= contentWidth) {

>                         System.out.println(text + "\" trucantes after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                        System.out.println(text + "\" truncates after \"" + text.substring(0, i) + "\""); //$NON-NLS-1$ //$NON-NLS-2$
```

                        break;
                    }

                }
            }
        }
    }

>     }

Reviewer 2: I think that this bracket is not necessary.

Reviewer 3: fixed

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can also talk about printing the path to the widget to help finding it.

Reviewer 3: done
